Centurions arrested at Colosseum,02/07/2012,"Two men dressed as centurions, who charge tourists for appearing in their photographs, were arrested on 2 July after an altercation with Rome police near the Colosseum.  Police spotted the costumed men, brothers Manuel and Eugenio Sonnino, posing for tourist’s photos in the area directly in front of the Colosseum – something the city authorities banned the “centurions” and “gladiators” from doing three months ago.  After being invited to move along, the two men reportedly threatened police with their wooden swords before fleeing the scene on foot. They were soon apprehended by motorcycle officers who charged them with violence and resisting arrest.  The incident comes amid continued efforts by the city’s police to rid the Colosseum area of the costumed characters who pester tourists for large amounts of cash, on which they allegedly do not pay taxes.  In March Rome’s superintendent of archaeological heritage, Maria Rosaria Barbera, ordered the expulsion of all costumed centurions from the area around the Colosseum. The city launched a task force of municipal police to crack down on the fake centurions as well as illegal snack-bar trucks and souvenir pedlars from the Colosseum’s visitor entrances and exits, and around the Arch of Constantine.   The centurions and gladiators reacted by staging a number of sit-in protests and in April two of them briefly occupied the Colosseum. They are still permitted to operate elsewhere in Rome, such as along Via dei Fori Imperiali, in Piazza Navona and at the Trevi Fountain.",Via dei Fori Imperiali
Public disorder in Rome's summer heat,12/07/2012,"Over recent nights there have been a number of high-profile incidents on Rome’s streets, some of them involving tourists and foreigners.  In the early morning of 11 July a 22-year old Australian woman was found suffering from a severe haemorrhage on a street near Termini Station. A Tunisian man, who organised an illegal “pub crawl” in which the woman and her four female Australian friends had participated earlier that night, is now under investigation for rape.   The woman has told authorities that sex was with her consent but the medics and psychologists who examined her believe she was raped. Police maintain that the level of alcohol in her blood was so high that she would have been incapable of “consent” in the conventional meaning of the word.  Separately, at 03.00 on 12 July, four tourists were arrested after brawling in Campo de’ Fiori, the scene of growing public disorder in recent years. Rome police charged three English men aged 20, 25 and 30, and one American aged 22, with rioting.  Meanwhile during the same night, six youths, four of them minors, were arrested in Testaccio for violently attacking a passerby. After the man managed to take refuge in a nearby bar, the youths began vandalising the property before fleeing. Following witnesses’ descriptions, police caught the assailants who were aged 16 to 20.  The incidents follow the city’s introduction of olfactory sensors into the 14 security cameras in the area around Piazza Trilussa in Trastevere. When these “electronic noses” detect a high concentration of drugs and alcohol, police stations are alerted by an alarm system connected to the cameras.  The pilot project is expected to be extended into other areas synonymous with nightlife such as Campo de ‘Fiori, Piazza dell’ Immacolata in S. Lorenzo, Piazza della Madonna dei Monti in the Monti district, and the Colosseum end of Via S. Giovanni in Laterano.",Piazza Trilussa
Rome updates CCTV surveillance system,22/03/2010,"A new centre for 24-hour video surveillance of Rome has been opened in Piazza Giovanni da Verrazzano. The Sala Sistema Roma, housed in a former cigarette factory, was opened by the mayor, Gianni Alemanno, who described the centre as being the first step in establishing an integrated security network to monitor the entire city. When the system is fully up-and-running it will receive footage from the city police as well as from public transport and all municipal authorities.  At present some 1,300 cameras are in operation, however within two months over 5,000 cameras will have been activated. The cameras will observe museums, monuments, bus lanes, car parks and train stations, in the hope of curbing violence, vandalism and associated anti-social behaviour. In extreme cases, the emergency services can be alerted to attend the scene immediately  The centre brings Rome a bit closer to surveillance standards in other European cities such as London, which has 100,000 cameras, and Paris which has 64,000.",Piazza Giovanni da Verrazzano
Anti-semitic graffiti in Rome,30/07/2014,"Rome’s mayor expresses solidarity with city’s Jewish community Police in Rome are investigating a spate of anti-semitic graffiti that has appeared on shopfronts and walls around the capital in recent days.The latest messages – removed from walls in the Prati district on 30 July – read “Giudei la vostra fine è vicina” (Jews your end is near) and “Fuoco alle Sinagoghe” (Burn the synagogues).On previous nights dozens of swastikas, slogans such as “Anna Frank cantastorie” (Anne Frank storyteller) and pro-Palestinian posters by a neo-nazi group reading “Stesso nemico, stessa barricata” (Same enemy, same barricade) appeared on Via Cola di Rienzo and Via Ottaviano in Prati and Via Appia Nuova in S. Giovanni.The anti-semitic graffiti has been widely condemned by Jewish leaders and local and state officials. Rome’s mayor Ignazio Marino described the affair as “a disgrace and an insult to all Romans.” He expressed solidarity with the city’s Jewish community, saying “Rome wants and must be the capital of dialogue and peace, and not the land of barbarity.”The vandalism in Rome follows reports of anti-semitic attacks and protests in other European capitals such as Berlin and Paris over Israel’s ongoing military operation in Gaza.Photos: Corriere della Sera",Via Cola di Rienzo
Flash fighting in Rome's Piazza Cavour,09/10/2012,"The newly-restyled Piazza Cavour in Rome’s Prati district has become the scene of large-scale organised street fights over the last two weekends.Up to 300 youths congregated in the square on the night of Saturday 6 October after receiving an invitation through social media website Facebook that read “Everyone bring alcohol and we’ll get drunk, also to feel less pain, with a cocktail of a litre and a half of gin, rum, vodka and grappa. Then let the fight begin.”Witnesses described seeing hordes of youths fighting amongst each other, some wielding clubs, chains and motorcycle helmets as weapons.Rome’s police commissioner has ordered increased security around the square for the duration of the upcoming weekend of 13 October, following the concerns of local residents that the violent events of the past two consecutive Saturday nights could be repeated.Meanwhile police are studying closed circuit television camera footage from the area and technical officers are trawling through Facebook in an attempt to identify ringleaders of the “maxi-rissa“.",Piazza Cavour
Anti-semitic graffiti in Rome,30/07/2014,"Rome’s mayor expresses solidarity with city’s Jewish community Police in Rome are investigating a spate of anti-semitic graffiti that has appeared on shopfronts and walls around the capital in recent days.The latest messages – removed from walls in the Prati district on 30 July – read “Giudei la vostra fine è vicina” (Jews your end is near) and “Fuoco alle Sinagoghe” (Burn the synagogues).On previous nights dozens of swastikas, slogans such as “Anna Frank cantastorie” (Anne Frank storyteller) and pro-Palestinian posters by a neo-nazi group reading “Stesso nemico, stessa barricata” (Same enemy, same barricade) appeared on Via Cola di Rienzo and Via Ottaviano in Prati and Via Appia Nuova in S. Giovanni.The anti-semitic graffiti has been widely condemned by Jewish leaders and local and state officials. Rome’s mayor Ignazio Marino described the affair as “a disgrace and an insult to all Romans.” He expressed solidarity with the city’s Jewish community, saying “Rome wants and must be the capital of dialogue and peace, and not the land of barbarity.”The vandalism in Rome follows reports of anti-semitic attacks and protests in other European capitals such as Berlin and Paris over Israel’s ongoing military operation in Gaza.Photos: Corriere della Sera",Via Cola di Rienzo,Via Appia Nuova
Rome postman hides undelivered letters,21/05/2014,"Main areas affected include Ostiense and S. Paolo A Roman postman faces criminal charges after being found in possession of almost 4,000 undelivered letters and packages, some of which date back to 2012.The discovery came to light when police stopped the man’s private vehicle at Piazza di Porta Maggiore during a routine check in the early hours of 20 May.   The officers discovered 836 packages and letters – both regular and registered mail – along with around 1,000 daily newspapers and some 2,000 subscription magazines, all of which are now being delivered to their recipients in Ostiense, S. Paolo, Trastevere, Monteverde and EUR.The postino initially said the mail belonged to him but later confessed that he would have burned it as it had become “too much.” Police are now trying to ascertain if other mail had previously been hidden or destroyed by the postman who also faces an investigation from Poste Italiane.The incident comes exactly a year after police on Rome’s Corso Italia found an abandoned stolen car containing four sacks of 1,000 letters, all of which had postage stamps affixed but had not been franked by the post office.  In March 2013 police arrested a postman in Subiaco, to the east of the Rome province, for failing to deliver mail over a three year-period, in order to return home early.",Piazza di Porta Maggiore
Mafia Capitale prosecutors indict ex-mayor Alemanno,07/11/2015,"Rome’s ex right-wing mayor Gianni Alemanno accused of corruption.Prosecutors in Rome have sought an indictment for the city’s former mayor Gianni Alemanno on accusations of corruption, in connection with the so-called Mafia Capitale trial which opened on 5 November. The indictment does not contain charges of association with the mafia.The Mafia Capitale trial is the result of a major investigation into a mafia-style syndicate accused of infiltrating city hall, involving politicians, public officials and business people who allegedly helped mobsters to win lucrative city contracts in sectors such as immigrant housing, camps for Roma people, waste management, recycling and parks maintenance.Prosecutors suspect Alemanno, the capital’s right-wing mayor from 2008 to 2013, of receiving €125,000 in illicit funds between 2012 and 2014. They allege the money was funnelled to him in separate tranches by three of the highest-profile defendants in the Mafia Capitale trial.Prosecutors believe Alemanno received €75,000 in financing for electoral dinners, €40,000 for his foundation, and about €10,000 in cash, the last of which he allegedly received in October 2014, two months before the first wave of Mafia Capitale arrests.Prosecutors allege that Alemanno received the illicit funds via his Nuova Italia foundation in exchange for “acts running counter to his duties in office”. On 11 December the trial’s judge Nicola Di Grazia will rule whether or not Alemanno should stand trial. The ex-mayor maintains his “complete innocence.”The Mafia Capitale trial is currently based at the criminal courts in Prati’s Piazzale Clodio but on 10 November is scheduled to relocate to the high security court at the Rebibbia prison in the eastern outskirts of Rome, which is better equipped for handling large groups of defendants.",Piazzale Clodio
Mafia Capitale trial opens,05/11/2015,"The first hearing in the so-called Mafia Capitale trial, the result of the biggest investigation into organised crime in Rome’s modern history, opened at the criminal courts in the Prati district on Thursday 5 November.The case involves 46 defendants, including the notorious Roman underworld figure Massimo Carminati – the alleged leader of a mafia-style syndicate accused of infiltrating city hall – who will follow proceedings via video link from a maximum security jail in Parma.A one-time member of a neofascist terrorist group as well as the former Banda della Magliana crime gang, Carminati lost an eye in a police shoot-out three decades ago.Also taking the stand is Carminati‘s sidekick Salvatore Buzzi who was caught on wire-tap in early 2013 boasting about how much money the mafia creamed off funds for emergency housing for immigrants and camps for Roma people.  The mobsters are believed to have corrupted dozens of politicians, public officials and business people in return for lucrative city contracts in sectors such as waste management, recycling and parks maintenance.Prosecutors allege these contracts were awarded during the administration of former right-wing mayor Gianni Alemanno, who is under investigation for corruption but does not face any mafia-related charges and is not involved in this trial.Local politicians from right and left parties Forza Italia (FI) and the Partito Democratico (PD) are also under trial. These include Luca Gramazio (Lazio branch of FI), the one-time city councillor Giordano Tredicine (FI), a member of the powerful Tredicine family which has a virtual monopoly of the mobile sandwich bars around Rome, and the former head of Rome city council Mirko Coratti (PD).The trial is currently based at the courthouse in Piazzale Clodio but on 10 November is scheduled to relocate to the high security court at the Rebibbia prison in the eastern outskirts of Rome, which is better equipped for handling large groups of defendants. Image: Secolo XIX",Piazzale Clodio
Anti-mafia protest in Rome,03/09/2015,"Capital stands up to organised crime following lavish Mafia funeral. Politicians, trade unions and civil society associations are staging an anti-mafia protest at Piazza Don Bosco in Rome’s Cinecittà district at 18.00 on 3 September.The sit-in takes place outside the parish church of Don Bosco, off Via Tuscolana, two weeks after the ostenatious funeral of Vittorio Casamonica, the head of the notorious Casamonica clan which is accused of extortion and drug trafficking. The protest will be attended by the governor of Lazio, Nicola Zingaretti, while the mayor of Rome Ignazio Marino, who returns from his US holiday today, has also pledged his attendance along with the city council and numerous councillors. Speaking from the United States on 2 September, Marino described the rally as “slamming the door in the face of organised crime”, saying he hopes it can be a “new beginning” for the capital. Marino also repeated that he inherited the corruption in city hall when he succeeded his right-wing predecessor Gianni Alemanno more than two years ago.At a meeting with the New York mayor Bill de Blasio at the end of his vacation, Marino said: “If you don’t have lots of enemies, it means that you have not done the right thing.” De Blasio praised his counterpart for being “courageous”, adding that Marino “deserves much credit for what he is doing in the battle against mafia and corruption.”  Marino returns to a new command structure decided during his absence, which puts much of the control of Rome under the city’s prefect Franco Gabrielli, who describes himself as a “loyal collaborator” of the embattled mayor.The move comes in light of the so-called Mafia Capitale case which is investigating more than 100 public officials and business figures – including former mayor Alemanno – on suspicion of crimes including bid-rigging, racketeering, aggravated fraud, issuing false invoices, and tax evasion.It also follows the film-set funeral for the 65-year-old Casamonica boss, which took place on 20 August while Marino was on vacation and included a helicopter dropping rose petals on the large crowds. The “funeral show”, as it is referred to by local media, attracted widespread anger in Rome and led to today’s anti-mafia protest being organised by Matteo Orfini, the president of Marino’s Partito Democratico (PD).",Via Tuscolana
Mafia funeral in Rome draws protests,24/08/2015,"Sit-in set for 3 September.A demonstration to protest the ostentatious funeral of the mafia boss, Vittorio Casamonica, is being called for 3 September. The heads of Rome’s 15 municipal districts have said that they will support the sit-in at the church of Don Bosco where the funeral of the head of the notorious Casamonica family was held in Piazza Don Bosco on 20 August, when most of the city was deserted for the Ferragosto holiday. The church of Don Bosco is off Via Tuscolana in the Cinecittà area of Rome.The lavish, film-set funeral, with black horse-drawn carriage, rose petals dropped from a helicopter and crowds of mourners, has further reinforced the image of Italy’s capital as a city without any proper leadership or control.Rome’s prefect, Franco Gabrielli, has called a meeting of the forces of law and order for Monday 24 August. He has already requested clarification from the police, the carabinieri and the city government about the event. The city’s mayor Ignazio Marino is still officially on holiday.   In a visit to Naples in the spring Pope Francis came out strongly against the mafia and official Church policy is against lavish funerals for mafia bosses. The priest at the church Don Bosco is reported as saying that he had no control of what happened outside his church. The bishop in charge of that part of the city has said that he knew nothing about the funeral, that he had not been warned by the police and that if he had known he would have stopped the show.In an article condemning the spectacular aspects of the funeral the Vatican newspaper Osservatore Romano has carried a comment from the archbishop of Catanzaro-Squillaci, Vincenzo Bertolone, that while the religious rites can not be denied mafia faithful, the funeral itself must be simple.Archbishop Bertolone is the postulant for the canonisation of Pino Puglisi, the priest who was murdered by the mafia in Palermo in 1993.",Via Tuscolana
Bank machine thefts in Rome,14/10/2013,"New outbreak of “cash trapping” in Rome Police in Rome have arrested a gang for stealing money on over 30 occasions from bank machines around the capital, using a system known as “cash trapping.”The six criminals were arrested on charges of aggravated theft after an investigation by police from stations at Monteverde and Trastevere.   The arrests come a year after criminals were caught stealing money from bank machines in the Porta Portese and Corso di Francia districts.The cash trapping method involves inserting a metal fork into the banknote dispenser, in a manner invisible to the naked eye. The procedure of withdrawing money functions as normal until the appearance of the words “operation complete/amount paid”.After that however, the notes are not forthcoming. At this point the customer usually blames the malfunction on a technical failure, and leaves the scene, allowing the observing thieves to retrieve the metal device and with it all the banknotes trapped inside.Police have advised that if users of bank machines in Rome do not receive their requested notes when the bank machine says it has paid the money, they should not leave the ATM but call the emergency police number 112 instead.",Corso di Francia
“Cash trapping” comes to Rome,30/10/2012,"Police in Rome have discovered a new system used by thieves to steal money by tampering with bank machines.Known as “cash trapping” the method involves inserting a metal clip into the banknote dispenser, in a manner invisible to the naked eye. The procedure of withdrawing money functions as normal until the appearance of the words “operation complete/amount paid”. After that however, the notes are not forthcoming. At this point the customer usually blames the malfunction on a technical failure, and leaves the scene, allowing the observing thieves to retrieve the metal device and with it all the banknotes trapped inside.Police from Rome’s Porta Portese station happened upon three Romanians acting suspiciously at an ATM on Via Francesco Grimaldi in the Portuense district. After the police intervened they found that the bank machine contained some €1,400 of trapped notes that the thieves were attempting to free. Further investigations led police to another ATM on Via Stefano Jacini, near Corso di Francia, which had also been tampered with in a similar fashion. The three thieves were arrested on charges of aggravated theft.Police have advised that if users of bank machines in Rome do not receive their requested notes when the bank machine says it has paid the money, they should not leave the ATM but call the emergency police number 112 instead.While older forms of bank machine theft such as “skimming” and card trapping have generally decreased across Europe, incidents of cash trapping have increased from 240 cases in 2010 to over 10,000 incidents in 2011.",Corso di Francia
Major anti-Mafia raid in Rome,21/01/2014,"Numerous bars and restaurants seized in central RomeA major police operation against the Camorra, the Naples-based mafia, has resulted in the seizure of 20 bars and restaurants in central Rome.Many of the premises belong to the Pizza Ciro chain and are located in areas around the Pantheon, Piazza Navona, Campo de’ Fiori and Via del Corso.The dawn raids on 22 January took place in Rome, Florence and Naples and led to the seizure of €250 million of assets and 90 arrests.The operation was coordinated by Italy’s anti-mafia directorate.",Via del Corso
Rome manhunt for escaped prisoners,16/02/2016,"Inmates remain at large after breaking out of Rome prison.A police manhunt is in operation in the greater Rome area for two prisoners who broke out of the city’s Rebibbia jail during the evening of 14 February.The inmates, who include a convicted murderer and are described as “very dangerous”, remain at large after evading capture for a second night.The pair escaped after sawing through window bars and scaling the prison wall using an improvised rope made from knotted sheets, before fleeing by foot on Via Tiburtina in the northeast Rebibbia suburb.They made their escape while attending a workshop at a new prison area, which was staffed by just two guards at the time and whose alarm system did not work, according to Italian news agency ANSA.Police are continuing with road blocks and bus checks around Rome in an attempt to catch the two who are named as Catalin Ciobanu and Mihai Florin Diaconescu, aged 33 and 28 respectively, from Romania.",Via Tiburtina
“Cash trapping” comes to Rome,30/10/2012,"Police in Rome have discovered a new system used by thieves to steal money by tampering with bank machines.Known as “cash trapping” the method involves inserting a metal clip into the banknote dispenser, in a manner invisible to the naked eye. The procedure of withdrawing money functions as normal until the appearance of the words “operation complete/amount paid”. After that however, the notes are not forthcoming. At this point the customer usually blames the malfunction on a technical failure, and leaves the scene, allowing the observing thieves to retrieve the metal device and with it all the banknotes trapped inside.Police from Rome’s Porta Portese station happened upon three Romanians acting suspiciously at an ATM on Via Francesco Grimaldi in the Portuense district. After the police intervened they found that the bank machine contained some €1,400 of trapped notes that the thieves were attempting to free. Further investigations led police to another ATM on Via Stefano Jacini, near Corso di Francia, which had also been tampered with in a similar fashion. The three thieves were arrested on charges of aggravated theft.Police have advised that if users of bank machines in Rome do not receive their requested notes when the bank machine says it has paid the money, they should not leave the ATM but call the emergency police number 112 instead.While older forms of bank machine theft such as “skimming” and card trapping have generally decreased across Europe, incidents of cash trapping have increased from 240 cases in 2010 to over 10,000 incidents in 2011.",Corso di Francia,Via Francesco Grimaldi
Rome marks UN day to eliminate violence against women,22/11/2012,"On average 120 women are killed by men each year in Italy, mostly by members of their own family or close friends. One woman in three will be subjected to violence by men, both physical and sexual, during the course of her life. These are the figures cited at a conference hosted in the Italian chamber of deputies on the eve of the UN day for the elimination of violence against women on 25 November.The day will be marked in Rome by a festival of music, photography, art and literature at the Lanificio 159, the ex-industrial space at Petralata, at the La Casa Internazionale delle Donne, at Città dell’ Altra Economia at the ex-Mattatoio in Testaccio, at the the Centro di Ascolto at Tor Bella Monaca.In Italy there have been some recent tragic and violent killings of women by men in the north and the south of the country, almost exclusively by men either close to or known by the women. According to the statistics from the help line Telefono Rosa, 85 per cent of the 106 dead so far this year have been victims of violence by close relatives or friends, 3 per cent up on 2011.Of the 1,000 women who have reported acts of violence to Telefono Rosa this year 44 per cent have experienced physical violence, the remainder psychological violence which includes stalking. Some 60 per cent of the women are between the ages of 35 and 54 and at least 12 per cent have been subject to long-term violence. It is thought the present economic crisis has led to increases in the level of violence against women in the home.In July this year a new help centre, part of the Associazione Giovanna D’Arco was opened close to Piazza del Popolo, Via Gabriele D’Annunzio 101, tel. 3479091265.Details of other help centres in Italy and events around the country on 25 November.See also Wanted in Rome related article",Piazza del Popolo
Major anti-Mafia raid in Rome,21/01/2014,"Numerous bars and restaurants seized in central RomeA major police operation against the Camorra, the Naples-based mafia, has resulted in the seizure of 20 bars and restaurants in central Rome.Many of the premises belong to the Pizza Ciro chain and are located in areas around the Pantheon, Piazza Navona, Campo de’ Fiori and Via del Corso.The dawn raids on 22 January took place in Rome, Florence and Naples and led to the seizure of €250 million of assets and 90 arrests.The operation was coordinated by Italy’s anti-mafia directorate.",Via del Corso,Piazza Navona
Centurions arrested at Colosseum,02/07/2012,"Two men dressed as centurions, who charge tourists for appearing in their photographs, were arrested on 2 July after an altercation with Rome police near the Colosseum.  Police spotted the costumed men, brothers Manuel and Eugenio Sonnino, posing for tourist’s photos in the area directly in front of the Colosseum – something the city authorities banned the “centurions” and “gladiators” from doing three months ago.  After being invited to move along, the two men reportedly threatened police with their wooden swords before fleeing the scene on foot. They were soon apprehended by motorcycle officers who charged them with violence and resisting arrest.  The incident comes amid continued efforts by the city’s police to rid the Colosseum area of the costumed characters who pester tourists for large amounts of cash, on which they allegedly do not pay taxes.  In March Rome’s superintendent of archaeological heritage, Maria Rosaria Barbera, ordered the expulsion of all costumed centurions from the area around the Colosseum. The city launched a task force of municipal police to crack down on the fake centurions as well as illegal snack-bar trucks and souvenir pedlars from the Colosseum’s visitor entrances and exits, and around the Arch of Constantine.   The centurions and gladiators reacted by staging a number of sit-in protests and in April two of them briefly occupied the Colosseum. They are still permitted to operate elsewhere in Rome, such as along Via dei Fori Imperiali, in Piazza Navona and at the Trevi Fountain.",Via dei Fori Imperiali,Piazza Navona
Dutch football hooligans wreak havoc in Rome,19/02/2015,"Rioting Feyenoord fans vandalise 17th-century fountainFans of Dutch football team Feyenoord rioted in Rome’s Piazza di Spagna during the late afternoon on 19 February, ahead of a Europa League match against AS Roma which ended in a 1-1 draw.During the clashes the rioting hooligans smashed glass bottles against the 17th-century Barcaccia fountain, damaging the central part of the baroque monument which was unveiled in September following a year-long restoration.The chipped fragments of the fountain, which is accredited to Pietro Bernini with the possible contribution of his famous son Gian Lorenzo, were visible in the waters along with bobbing glass bottles and rubbish dumped by the hooligans.13 police were injured after the drunken Feyenoord fans pelted them with bottles and flares, leaving the entire Piazza di Spagna littered with broken glass and debris. A running battle ensued after police engaged in baton charges to move the Dutch fans towards Villa Borghese.Once they reached the park, the hooligans vandalised 15 city buses acquisitioned by the police to take them to the Olympic stadium which opened three hours early, before kick-off at 19.00. Bus provider ATAC said later that the buses were damaged so badly that they are now unusable for public transport.Despite the closure of bars and a temporary alcohol ban in place in the city centre, the Feyenoord fans still managed to get their hands on booze. Criticising the loss in trade to the city, Italian business association Confesercenti claimed the ban was being defied openly by “illegal vendors selling beer bottles around the crowds of fans, but no one says anything.”There were up to 7,000 Feyenoord fans in Rome for the game and many of them were already involved in unruly behaviour in Campo de’ Fiori on the night of 18 February. Throughout the next day they caused mayhem in the centre, vandalising property and vehicles, intimidating shopkeepers, urinating against apartment doors and jumping on cars.Police arrested 28 fans on charges of resistance, damage and violence, with an Italian court handing down fines of €45,000 each to several defendants, while others received jail terms of between eight and 16 months. They were among the 600 Feyenoord fans escorted to Fiumicino airport to board chartered planes back to Holland. Following the game, police escorted the Dutch fans en masse from the stadium in the Flaminio district to Termini station.Italian premier Matteo Renzi referred to the football hooligans as “barbarians” who were “full of beer”, saying that their behaviour was “a total insult to civility.” The prime minister said that he is awaiting an apology from Feyenoord, adding that the hooligans would be punished with “much severity and harshness.”The capital’s “furious” mayor Ignazio Marino tweeted: “Rome devastated and wounded. In contact with the prefect, police chief and Dutch ambassador. It won’t end here”. The mayor said he is ordering an investigation into why the Barcaccia fountain was not guarded by police, while Rome’s cultural heritage superintendent Claudio Parisi Presicce said the city would sue for damages once the culprits were identified. Marino also said he told Rome’s Dutch embassy: “Chi rompe paga” (Whoever breaks, pays).The Dutch embassy agreed that the damage to the historic fountain was a “disgrace” even though “only a few chips came off.” In a statement agreed with the foreign ministry of the Netherlands, the embassy said that Italian authorities “can count on the complete collaboration and commitment of the Netherlands to see the culprits are punished.”Andy Devane",Piazza di Spagna
“Cash trapping” comes to Rome,30/10/2012,"Police in Rome have discovered a new system used by thieves to steal money by tampering with bank machines.Known as “cash trapping” the method involves inserting a metal clip into the banknote dispenser, in a manner invisible to the naked eye. The procedure of withdrawing money functions as normal until the appearance of the words “operation complete/amount paid”. After that however, the notes are not forthcoming. At this point the customer usually blames the malfunction on a technical failure, and leaves the scene, allowing the observing thieves to retrieve the metal device and with it all the banknotes trapped inside.Police from Rome’s Porta Portese station happened upon three Romanians acting suspiciously at an ATM on Via Francesco Grimaldi in the Portuense district. After the police intervened they found that the bank machine contained some €1,400 of trapped notes that the thieves were attempting to free. Further investigations led police to another ATM on Via Stefano Jacini, near Corso di Francia, which had also been tampered with in a similar fashion. The three thieves were arrested on charges of aggravated theft.Police have advised that if users of bank machines in Rome do not receive their requested notes when the bank machine says it has paid the money, they should not leave the ATM but call the emergency police number 112 instead.While older forms of bank machine theft such as “skimming” and card trapping have generally decreased across Europe, incidents of cash trapping have increased from 240 cases in 2010 to over 10,000 incidents in 2011.",Corso di Francia,Via Francesco Grimaldi,Via Stefano Jacini
Growing violence in Trastevere,31/03/2014,"Arrival of violent “knockout” phenomenonResidents and traders in Trastevere have met with city authorities to express their exasperation of the violence that is affecting their district.   The group say that Trastevere is the scene of violent and anti-social behaviour almost every night but particularly at the weekends.The residents and traders say that the root of the problem is the cheap and ready supply of alcohol being sold to underage drinkers at fruit shops and mini-markets.What residents are most concerned about is the recent arrival of the violent phenomenon known as “knockout”, whereby unsuspecting passers-by are punched in the face with the aim of knocking them unconscious. This “game”, which was imported from America in February, involves the attackers’ friends filming their exploits to upload on social media.Residents say those involved in “knockout” are Italian teenage boys aged 15-18 who congregate in the area around Vicolo Dè Cinque, drinking and consuming drugs on the street.  Much of the violent behaviour occurs on less-busy surrounding side streets such as Via del Cipresso and Via di S. Dorotea, according to local traders who told Italian newspaper La Repubblica they are tired of the “mindless violence.”The legal drinking age in Italy was raised last year from 16 to 18 by the former health minister Renato Balduzzi. Selling alcohol to minors in Italy carries a fine between €250 and €1,000.Photos La Repubblica",Via del Cipresso
Rome opposes violence against women,25/11/2015,"A total of 152 women were murdered in Italy in 2014, with 94 per cent of the deaths attributed to men, according to a report into femicide released on 24 November. Of the 152 murdered women, 117 were killed within a family context.  However the findings by European research institute EURES reveal that the overall number of femicides in 2014 was down just over 15 per cent compared to 2013.Marking the UN-backed International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women on 25 November, volunteers from the multi-lingual women’s helpline Telefona Rosa are organising an event at the Auditorium della Conciliazione from 09.30-13.00, featuring experts speaking on the theme “women uniting diverse worlds and cultures”.The Teatro Sistina stages X=Y, a play opposing violence against women, aimed at a young audience, on 25 and 26 November at 10.30 on both days.A “tango session with red shoes” takes place at Porta S. Paolo from 19.00-21.30 on 25 November. Organisers say the initiative, performed and overseen by Argentinian dancers, will use tango as a “beautiful metaphor for the harmony that is possible between men and women.” The Casa Internazionale delle Donne on Via della Lungara 19, in Trastevere, is holding a talk entitled Le donne di fronte al terrorismo on 25 November at 17.30. All events in Italian.Proceeds from the sale of prints at the Chiostro del Bramante between now and 29 November will go towards Donne in Rete contro la violenza (D.iRe), the national association of independent women’s centres and shelters against violence.Each pair of red shoes in the photo symbolises a murdered woman.",Via della Lungara
Public disorder in Rome's summer heat,12/07/2012,"Over recent nights there have been a number of high-profile incidents on Rome’s streets, some of them involving tourists and foreigners.  In the early morning of 11 July a 22-year old Australian woman was found suffering from a severe haemorrhage on a street near Termini Station. A Tunisian man, who organised an illegal “pub crawl” in which the woman and her four female Australian friends had participated earlier that night, is now under investigation for rape.   The woman has told authorities that sex was with her consent but the medics and psychologists who examined her believe she was raped. Police maintain that the level of alcohol in her blood was so high that she would have been incapable of “consent” in the conventional meaning of the word.  Separately, at 03.00 on 12 July, four tourists were arrested after brawling in Campo de’ Fiori, the scene of growing public disorder in recent years. Rome police charged three English men aged 20, 25 and 30, and one American aged 22, with rioting.  Meanwhile during the same night, six youths, four of them minors, were arrested in Testaccio for violently attacking a passerby. After the man managed to take refuge in a nearby bar, the youths began vandalising the property before fleeing. Following witnesses’ descriptions, police caught the assailants who were aged 16 to 20.  The incidents follow the city’s introduction of olfactory sensors into the 14 security cameras in the area around Piazza Trilussa in Trastevere. When these “electronic noses” detect a high concentration of drugs and alcohol, police stations are alerted by an alarm system connected to the cameras.  The pilot project is expected to be extended into other areas synonymous with nightlife such as Campo de ‘Fiori, Piazza dell’ Immacolata in S. Lorenzo, Piazza della Madonna dei Monti in the Monti district, and the Colosseum end of Via S. Giovanni in Laterano.",Piazza Trilussa,Piazza della Madonna dei Monti
US student stabbed in Rome,01/11/2012,"A 19-year-old American foreign exchange student was stabbed 25 times in Rome’s central Monti district at dawn on 1 November, following a night of Hallowe’en partying.The victim was stabbed with a kitchen knife as he slept at their apartment on Via del Cardello, a small side street off the Colosseum-end of Via Cavour.Another US student was injured while attempting to apprehend the alleged attacker, a 20-year old fellow American flat mate, who has been arrested on suspicion of attempted murder.The victim underwent emergency surgery for a perforated lung and multiple stab wounds at the city’s S. Giovanni hospital. His injuries do not appear to be life threatening.The flat is shared by five Americans, all students at one of the American universities in Rome.It is believed that the students had been at a club in the Laurentina district before returning home where the party continued. Police discovered quantities of marijuana, cocaine and ecstasy powder at the apartment, and say the motive for the attack remains unclear.",Via Cavour
Anti-semitic graffiti in Rome,30/07/2014,"Rome’s mayor expresses solidarity with city’s Jewish community Police in Rome are investigating a spate of anti-semitic graffiti that has appeared on shopfronts and walls around the capital in recent days.The latest messages – removed from walls in the Prati district on 30 July – read “Giudei la vostra fine è vicina” (Jews your end is near) and “Fuoco alle Sinagoghe” (Burn the synagogues).On previous nights dozens of swastikas, slogans such as “Anna Frank cantastorie” (Anne Frank storyteller) and pro-Palestinian posters by a neo-nazi group reading “Stesso nemico, stessa barricata” (Same enemy, same barricade) appeared on Via Cola di Rienzo and Via Ottaviano in Prati and Via Appia Nuova in S. Giovanni.The anti-semitic graffiti has been widely condemned by Jewish leaders and local and state officials. Rome’s mayor Ignazio Marino described the affair as “a disgrace and an insult to all Romans.” He expressed solidarity with the city’s Jewish community, saying “Rome wants and must be the capital of dialogue and peace, and not the land of barbarity.”The vandalism in Rome follows reports of anti-semitic attacks and protests in other European capitals such as Berlin and Paris over Israel’s ongoing military operation in Gaza.Photos: Corriere della Sera",Via Cola di Rienzo,Via Appia Nuova,Via Ottaviano
Irish priest victim of hit and run in Rome,22/11/2012,"An Irish priest, who has been missing for several days in Rome, has been found in Ospedale S. Filippo Neri in north-west Rome.Father Bart Kiely appears to have been the victim of a hit and run accident. Both his legs are broken, he is unconscious but not in a coma and his condition is critical but stable. The extent of his facial bruising made identification difficult. He was not carrying any form of identification when admitted to hospital.Kiely, who is 70 and teaches and lives at the Pontifical Gregorian University, had been missing since Wednesday 14 November.He left the university at 12.45 that day on his bicycle and was thought to be heading to a meeting at the American Episcopal Church of St Paul’s Within the Walls on Via Nazionale. However he did not turn up at the meeting.  He was not dressed in clerical attire when he left the Gregorian.S. Filippo Neri was beyond the catchment area of the city hospitals that were searched initially.",Via Nazionale
US student stabbed in Rome,01/11/2012,"A 19-year-old American foreign exchange student was stabbed 25 times in Rome’s central Monti district at dawn on 1 November, following a night of Hallowe’en partying.The victim was stabbed with a kitchen knife as he slept at their apartment on Via del Cardello, a small side street off the Colosseum-end of Via Cavour.Another US student was injured while attempting to apprehend the alleged attacker, a 20-year old fellow American flat mate, who has been arrested on suspicion of attempted murder.The victim underwent emergency surgery for a perforated lung and multiple stab wounds at the city’s S. Giovanni hospital. His injuries do not appear to be life threatening.The flat is shared by five Americans, all students at one of the American universities in Rome.It is believed that the students had been at a club in the Laurentina district before returning home where the party continued. Police discovered quantities of marijuana, cocaine and ecstasy powder at the apartment, and say the motive for the attack remains unclear.",Via Cavour,Via del Cardello
